okay hello and welcome to the sass
expert series hosted by algo Lea I'm
Ashley stirrup I'm the chief marketing
officer for algo Lea and I'm excited to
have Jason Lemkin Lea founder and CEO of
sass tur with us today the formatting
for having me Ashley yes thank you thank
you the format we're gonna have today is
about 15 minutes worth of questions
between me and Jason and then we're
going to open it up to all of you so I
want to encourage you to go into the Q&A
session and put in your questions and
upload questions that other people are
making that you think are gonna be
interesting a little bit about algo Lea
for those of you who don't know or a
search and discovery platform developed
for product builders like you and so you
can embed our search into your products
just like striped slack Zendesk and
others are doing and Jason just to kick
things off here we have a little
tradition algo Lea where we like to get
to know people better by finding out a
fun fact you have a fun fact you can
share with us no I'm not that fun but
I'll share a sort of an unexpected fact
I guess I've done you know I've spent
almost all of my career doing internet
software of various forms but the first
startup I founded made implantable
batteries that go inside of your body
from nanomaterials whoa yes little crazy
ambitious pretty innovative yes let that
go for you well during the we I'm not
even sure if we're in a downturn today
depends how you look at it in terms of
like the world it's awful in terms of
cloud and Sassy's the best of times but
during the during the last dish downturn
or the the two downturns ago I had I had
no job so we we bought this technology
that that no one thought any value of
and and built this startup to build
these implantable batteries I knew
nothing but I did recruit the best
people in the world that knew how to do
it and we sold it for 50 million after
twelve and half months
that was my first turn
and then the Metta lesson is it's all
about the T because I did nothing about
about this space I'm exaggerating a
little bit but yeah that's my I guess
it's not fun but unexpected fact for
someone that spends all this time
talking about SAS I did something that
was at the extreme edge of hard science
and material science and it was very
hard
my and my co-founder then her intern at
her company before that was Elon Musk
well oh he was very into the space so
you think of him and how does Elon Musk
do like PayPal and like SpaceX and Solar
City and Tesla and all these things all
right but he started off studying super
capacitors and energy science and that's
why he knows about batteries and that's
all I know about space my long-winded
long fun fact the lesson learned go find
your Elon Musk and start a company with
people know the lesson is find people
better than you yeah you could never
lose as a founder always find people
never shy away from it never hire people
worse than you always hire people better
than you and then you can do the if not
the impossible you can do the unlikely
that's great so first question so you
know obviously for a lot of startups
they're thinking about both product
market fit and then building the right
go to market maybe we start with the
product market fit and as a board member
and advisor how would you define product
market fit how do you work with teams on
that yeah I will I will tell you how I
define it and then I'll share a fun
story from algo Lea the you know I
thought about this for a long time I
didn't really know what I thought
product market fit was for sure and
cloud and b2b and SAS until recently but
then I realized what what it is in
product mark fit at least in the early
days is when you grow faster than you
know why
so as anybody especially as founders you
obsess every day about every detail like
in the early days you don't have that
many customers you don't have that much
data you can instrument everything like
you have no tools or anything but you
know like you can literally watch each
user really it is I don't know how many
like billions of searches algalita say
but in the early days the team could
probably
watch each new sign up so you have this
this fluency of information and then a
moment in time comes for some reason and
so because of that you know you know
where every user comes from not just
every custom you know where every sign
out comes oh that's from a TechCrunch
article that's from an event I did and
then a moment in time comes were whoa
it's like a lot faster that I know why
like I don't know why and that could
because your brand starts to take off in
some little niche right it could be
because some feature you launched was
far more important than you thought but
net-net a moment if you're gonna build a
unicorn there'll be a moment in time in
the early days when all of a sudden holy
cow
we're growing faster than than we ever
expected and you know example from Al
Gore I invested in Algol iam 2014 when
now goalie was doing $12,000 a month in
revenue right I'll go he's coming up on
nine figures in revenue now but that was
in 2014 at the time 12 came on and then
it was 15k months by the time the check
cleared 15km unthe and Mr doesn't sound
like a lot compared to where our goalie
would say but the company was growing 20
30 % every month and the founders didn't
exactly know why okay so that's product
market fit like okay Julie and Nicholas
why are you why well we think it might
be outbound we think of but I don't know
but but interestingly the first product
at Algol II had never achieved product
market fit
so before algo leah was a search as a
service product and API it was a mobile
sdk and the team was very early to
mobile and they wanted a very
lightweight search product that will
work inherently on mobile in 2012 right
when phones were much less powerful
today and they build this incredible
search service that worked in a very
low-power and low CPU environment and
everyone loved this mobile search
products just no one would pay for it so
they took that core of that technology
which they spent two years of their
lives and a token amount of pre seed
capital and you know ramen money paying
themselves nothing and they just didn't
work for two years and they took that
same technology and repackaged it as an
API and that became the ugly we knew
today and then boom right it took off so
different expression of the technology
right different use case as an API for a
web rather than a mobile thing but
ultimately that was product market fit
versus the early to years as a mobile st
nothing right people loved it but they
wouldn't pay for it and it just it
wasn't a big enough problem on mobile
that you could build a business around
it and if you don't feel that now later
algo Leah today just said it as a case
study cuz we're a bullet algo Leah
obviously has product market fit how
many customers does algo a up today
actually over nine thousand okay nine
thousand how many company okay so nine
thousand pain and then there's a long
tail so there's there's tens of
thousands of developers and others using
Al Gore maybe hundreds of thousands okay
so whether I'll go a has a great June or
an okay June or whatever
I'll go has product mark but in those
early days if it isn't if you don't have
at least a month or two or it's much
faster than you expected challenge
yourself because you don't have it don't
pat yourself on the back right don't
beat the team up but go figure it out
and figure out what you need to do so
that you can have that moment where you
sort of go from mobile to to B to D for
algo and then wow the sort of the world
changes yeah so what if you haven't
achieved that yet so you know maybe
you've signed a few customers but it's
just not coming together like you
thought yeah um you know I I I learned
this lesson as a founder of it as an
investor it took me a little while to
figure it out as I started investing a
little bit in companies that were a
little earlier than earlier seed right
folks that were pre product market fit I
when I invest an apple at the folks I
used to work with thought it was crate I
was crazy to invest in this company but
hey if it's doing 12 K month but it's
growing twenty percent a month it has
something something good there but I've
now done investments that were earlier
than that like pre pre that pre that
lift even that tiny lift and I've
certainly done it as a founder and I
think what I've learned is if you're not
hitting that growth rate there's a first
question you have to ask yourself which
is but you have customers so you have a
handful you have 10 20 30 40 customers
whatever is 10 km or in your example you
have to first find out are the customers
you do have happy like today and are
they sticking with you is your turn low
or ideally net negative on a revenue
basis right are they buying more from
you and is your m PSI so if say your net
revenue retention is 120% and your MP s
is 6
okay that's that's just as good as
that's close to Tulio that's just as
good as Page or duty or octo right but
you're in the zone your customers love
you and the net churn is positive so
they're buying more from you but you're
growing slowly so like what's wrong well
I can tell you almost empirically that
95 times out of 100 certainly nine times
out of ten they're problem areas your
product just doesn't do enough you don't
have product market fit you are able
through Hudspeth through hard work to
you've identified a problem right like
that mobile sdk before our Golia became
a web api that you've identified the
problem so you can lure people into your
product which is hard because there's so
many cloud products there's thousands
and thousands and thousands of cloud
products so you've done something
incredible which you've gotten the
attention of bona fide customers and
they've put you into production they've
used you but if you honestly ask your
customers if you're not going fast
enough what what more would you like
from us what more would you like from
our vendor they'll usually tell you a
bunch of things that you know you should
be building but you haven't gotten there
yet
ask them go ask your happy customers
what you're paying me $500 a month
what could I build for you for you to
pay me $1,000 a month what could I build
for you to pay me $2,000 a month if your
customers love you they will want to buy
more from you
right they want to buy more from their
trusted investors from their trusted
vendors so go ask them and you usually
find the problem is you just you've
identified the problem it's close to
product market fit because they're
finding you but it's you do not ever
rich enough feature set you don't truly
have a 1.0 feature set and you can fix
that you can fix that if you have happy
customers because you have time if
they're unhappy I worry right if you're
happy you're your release or two away
from product market fit with a good team
if they're unhappy you may have nothing
it made that 10k maybe an illusion you
may have tricked customers into using
you so I just want to encourage people
to go to the Q&A panel and and go ahead
and post your questions excited to be
fielding those as well one more for you
though Jason so oK you've really thought
about the product side of it now you're
trying to think about the go-to-market
side particularly in the early days you
know how do you go about doing that how
do you find product market fit is that
the question sorry
more like okay I've got a product I feel
good about now how do I go grow it how
do I go require more customers you know
what should buy my model B should I be
doing webinars should I be doing a
freemium model you know all those kinds
of things well first let me tell you
what the answer isn't mm-hmm
the answer isn't spending all the little
money you have to hire sales magician
there is that person does not exist now
they exist a little bit you know in the
early days of Algol II Gaytan certainly
in some ways was a sales magician but
what I mean is what does not work is a
set of founders especially either that
are technical or product oriented or
just have never done sales thinking hey
my product rocks like this is the best
product or world seen but if I just hire
the perfect sales person then we can
actually sell the product the prophesy
don't have a great sales person that
never works and you know it took us a
while to figure out that in the early
days like you just the founders just
have to find a way to sell but it's so
true why do I know that you have to find
a way to sell even if you're Nikolas and
Julian in the early days and then with
gating you have to find a way it does
not mean that you have to be the best
salesperson because here's the trick
with founder led sales that I think that
all of us we've been founders we don't
we don't totally believe this but it's
true customers and prospects love to
talk to the CEO they love it
right actually if you can get Bernadette
on a call with the prospect will they
take that meeting oh absolutely
in 60 seconds right so forget about
Algol eh it turns out prospects love to
talk to the CEO even of a four person
company right your average mid-level
manager at a big company how often do
they get to talk to a CEO never yes okay
you may feel insecure you may be like
it's just four of us working from home
and my zoom backgrounds gross in my
apartment like why would a global mm
company want to talk to me but have the
confidence and realize that if you can
solve that it's not that people just
want to talk with startups all day long
but if you can solve a customer
prospects problem and you are the CEO
leverage that right so you don't have to
be the world's best salesperson to sell
as a parent you just have to try to sell
and say I'm the CEO right I'm the CEO of
algo yeah you know I don't know go back
go back to six years
we're built we have a search as a
service company I've run the company
this is who we are here we we have the
following logos it looks like you have
this problem search on your websites a
disaster we could solve it in an hour do
you have time to talk it will increase
your conversions 50% on your ecommerce
site like you know what if that's from
the CEO you probably you send 50 of
those emails and they're tailored
they're not spam right each one is
perfectly tailored Ashley I researched
you you know I know you're I'm a big
admirer of your company will remind me
where'd you work before I'll Galia
Talent okay talent alland you know
Ashley I you know talent you know you
know you just have the perfect email and
it's from the CEO you're gonna gonna get
this meeting so anyhow salesman the
sales magician is you that's my learning
in the early days and then when you when
you have enough of an engine going then
you can bring in the sales magician
right the sales magician takes something
that you've made work and then builds
processes in a team team on top of it to
it so that's what doesn't work to get it
what does work so then how do you get it
get it going in the early days what does
work and again this is it and not doing
this as a classic thing is you just you
just have to try everything they figure
out what you're not terrible at what are
you not terrible at so in the early days
of Algol uh the team you know we're all
terrible I'm still terrible personally a
lot of things but the team was good at
two things that I could see actually
three things one is the founders were
good Nicholas was good at getting on
stage now getting on stage is obviously
a little bit harder during kovat 19 but
there's still a virtual version right
but every event that you could go to
we're developers we're at Nicholas was
there right whether he had to man some
crappy $2000 booth himself whether he
got on stage whether it was an audience
of four people for whatever reason he
was willing to hustle he would get on
the plane get on the TGV get on whatever
it took he probably did fifty eighty a
hundred events a year okay and in there
at least let's imagine like no one heard
of alcohol yeah and they're like what is
an alcohol and what is where does this
come from
all computer language is even talking
about but um
imagine you go and you just meet two
prospects and one of them pays you
$10,000 you're like that's enough in the
early days right it's enough to do it so
that's what they were good at Gaytan was
good at connecting with people and then
back in the early days algo leah did
another thing that some founders are
good at but but others aren't which is
content marketing and algol you wrote a
few pieces and probably Julianne wrote
them in the early days and they were
great we should find them and they
compared algo Lea to elastic which is
which is a competitor and it wasn't
incredibly on it and they wrote a bunch
of things but I think Julianne wrote
this incredibly honest piece and he was
like let me here's all the data we've
run a billion searches to her assistance
here's where algo leah is no better than
elastic okay if you have large object
search if you're doing massive tech
surge like you should stick with elastic
it's better in fact here's where it does
well now let's talk about certain types
of small object search and certain types
of smaller so for e-commerce here's a
piece where we are 50 times faster okay
and it was very honest and it was data
and it showed here's an example that hey
if you if in this use case you to play
algo Leah you could increase say
conversions on your ecommerce site five
acts okay and that piece of content
marketing
thousands of prospects over time found
right it's so and it but it was great
and we could dig up that post together
and share it with the team I bet that
post took 40 hours to write right and
probably probably hours and hours and
hours of data generation this was a data
rich heavy article not something that
was outsourced to someone on a cheap
website right not not not Janeiro
content right so that probably took a
lot of work but that worked probably
that generated lead so so they were good
at that they were good at what you know
we didn't even call it content marketing
2014 so find your superpower find the
thing that you're good at some folks are
great at outbound some folks are great
at hustling right some folks are great
at working the network but and and and
even if and then what will happen is
you'll find something they'll be my last
sort of long answer to your question but
what will happen the early issues you'll
find something and it will work but it
won't work a lot like you'll go to
you'll do the the blog article you'll do
the event our real life soon enough
you'll do the partner the partner
program and you'll get like two
customers you'll be dejected you'll be
like you know to cuss I try to hold this
work I like a two customers but you have
to realize if you got two and you didn't
know you could probably get two for the
next one and then you'll get better
you'll probably get four and then eight
and then 16 and so instead of like being
bummed you only got two and doing 8,000
other things that get you nothing double
down on whatever works even if it works
too slowly because everything compounds
right everything abounds we it took us a
while to figure that out and SAS for
recurring revenue but everything
compound's marketing compounds marketing
efforts compound product development
compounds and so just figure out
whatever works at all and do more of it
and give yourself 24 months and watch
what compels watch what compounds if
you're really good at it and don't do 20
crummy things because they won't they
won't get you eighty leads great that's
great advice
just one thing I'll add on your point on
the founders going out and doing the
selling when I was a CEO of a small
startup I found that initially I just
wasn't learning enough and I had to
change the questions and the way I was
talking to customers so we learn more
and then that unlocked a whole series of
new things that we did that really help
the business grow so first question here
is from Dilip he's saying that they have
one sales person that's doing great but
they're having a hard time duplicating
that with the other hires they've made
have you yes Jo how have you addressed I
first of all I would say that's probably
only true of 92% of startups yeah yeah
what typically happens is we well first
of all let me step back
here's them so he's got one rep that
works and then two or 10 that don't work
what the real answer to this problem is
ultimately it will be solved it will be
solved when you hire a good VP of Sales
because she will know how to train
people she will know how to she'll be
more patient she will have more time she
will coach them she will be in deals
with them together all the
that you're not good at and you have
time this first sales magician that
folks end up having is usually someone
that is smarter than average really
understands your product like way more
product savvy than reps 3 through 300
will ever be often from a quirky
background I find write often because
the hottest rep out of algo Leah today
may not want to be the first rep in
another store like they're probably
making pretty good money they've got a
pretty good life and like they might
join something else but the last thing
they're gonna do is join a four person
startup and no it's not the number 188
out really taste it's not going to
happen
so they have to have some sort of quirky
background and they usually have 10 or
15 more IQ points than your average
they're usually mid-pack as an AE
mid-pack of the sales rep but really
love your product and so later you're
gonna need a you're gonna need all
different types of reps and your VP of
Sales will help you but here's the hack
and when I tell us to people it solves
the problem going forward is never ever
ever as a co-founder CEO hire a sales
rep you would not buy your own product
from when I asked what's the difference
between rep that one that worked and two
through nine there'll be a diversity of
stories and backgrounds but I'll always
ask ok rep number one ash that you know
rep Ashley would you buy your product
from Ashley yeah I know when I met when
I met her him by the end of the first
minute I knew I would buy I'll go Leah
from him or her right rent was rep
number two like well rep number two he
was a great rap at Willie oh he was
awesome at SendGrid he crushed it at
alland okay like all the Ross said he
was terrific but but would you buy your
product from him a product that no one's
heard of no I would I'm not sure I would
don't hire that person better to hire
the quirky person the person that did it
was in a different industry probably has
to be at a similar deal size because you
know certain deal sizes have certain
ways of communicating with customers but
that's the key and I always ask them up
to the ribs would you have bought from
Michelle or Michael and I was like no I
would not have bought that's the mistake
you made even if you're a crummy
salesperson as a founder CEO you have
sold your product you know what the
questions are just like when you were
CEO Ashley you know and if you if you
flip it around and it's not sell me it's
your oh it's the 2.0 version of
tell me this time you don't have to play
the game of sell me my product but you
have to say after spending two to three
hours with this higher would I buy my
what I trust this lead to them and you
know the answer was now and so force
yourself to find another one like the
first one that you would just buy your
product from and you will get two and
then when you have two you can hire a
manager a salesperson I had two sales
directors else I can get you from three
to three hundred that's the mistake
they've always made when I asked the
question they always go for logo or
smooth-talkin or something over and they
failed I wouldn't buy it from them yeah
I'm actually working with an early stage
company right now that has this exact
problem and we interviewed their their
first rep has been with the company for
years and you know he started off being
happy to sell one seat and now he's like
a hundred seats that's too small at the
I'll move on yep but when you
interviewed him you're like oh my god
this guy is a ninja nobody else in the
world could be like this guy and so then
really the question is like how do you
boil that down into like the key things
that you can make replicable for other
others tells people that first that
magical sales are up you're talking
about
I've asked Geoff Lawson about it on
stage I've asked lucerna of estimate
every every leader in cloud had that
person everyone is the same story yeah
the answer is not and their knowledge
compounds over time right their
knowledge compounds over time and you
can't reproduce that you you can't that
and that that if they're really great in
some ways that's what Gaytan did at
Alcoa he became an iconic font of
knowledge that could never even
I mean Gaytan will say there's other
people at Algol that are much better at
sales and business don't than everyone
but the amount of the corpus of
knowledge that he's had being there from
you know he will have with with the
break he will have been there from like
1 K and M RR to a thousand thousand
whatever a hundred thousand and even in
the math Ronnie you'll never reproduce
that that that ninja element but you
don't have to you just need to have
another person you would buy from and
then your VP of Sales will be very
different you remember when it you have
to graduate out of that
rather than try to reproduce it that's
Nordic right yeah it's great so next
question is from Karen and so they've
built a new platform and they're taking
on some incumbents that you know are
built on legacy stacks trouble is the
legacy stacks are more feature-rich and
so they're struggling to get yeah
they're struggling to get people to buy
their new platform because they'd have
to take a step back on the features so
any advice room well first of all that's
it's either not true it's good news the
good news is if you're if you're
competing against a big incumbent and
you're talking to great prospects and
they're truly telling you I would buy if
only you close these gaps then that's
where we've all been since the dawn of
time so what you do is each quarter you
close more of the gaps and instead of
closing then when you close 5% of those
leads next quarter you'll close seven
and then you'll close ten and then 12
and then 15 that's that is the way it's
been since dawn eternal right is you
compete with it and come in and you
ideally you have a 10x feature or they
wouldn't pick you there has to be
something that you do that is 10x better
what they do and now goalie in the early
days competing with the last thing it
didn't do what it did today but for for
small for a certain type of small object
search your jaw dropped at the speed so
there would be customers that say listen
I want to put search on my website today
in an hour that literally is faster than
Google that is at the speed of light not
because it's cool right but because I
have such a massive store of objects
that I need to find in seconds right
even we're not even the core uske center
but if you go to sastra comm we have
hundreds of thousands of pieces of
content over seven years and you can
find them in literally in a nanosecond
using Algol yet right not that we're the
perfect Custer you got bigger customers
but that's something we couldn't get
anywhere right that's a 10x feature so
on the one hand that that story is like
we're dead we're losing to the bigges
because we're a future poor like if it's
true but you're closing some that's good
news now you have a road map now you
have a road map for the next three years
okay we're we're losing 98% of the deals
oh we're closing two
that's great just listen really catalog
enforce ranking listen now you know what
to build for the next 24 months when you
didn't even know what to build last week
right um but if you don't have a 10x
reason like if even 2% are buying you if
it's zero then that's not true it's not
really it's just an excuse it's just a
way you're getting off the hook so be
honest with you what's your 10x feature
right and every everyone that took on an
incumbent had a future pour product
often had a bug-ridden product had a
product with many issues but it had a
10x piece one and it was the 10x piece
has to be monetizable right not every
part of every industry can be monetized
right there are pieces that are easier
or harder to monetize and typically
parts that are close to the money are
easier to monetize right right yeah yeah
it's interesting this reminds me a
little bit of when I was at alland we
were competing with him from Attica and
we were cheaper and we were faster and
so he tried to just go get customers to
rip out informatica and replaces with
town and they wouldn't do that
but when they suddenly wanted to move
from doing what they were doing on Prem
to the cloud and it's like okay I can
use talent and move to the cloud then
suddenly these transition make sense and
so just because you've got like a newer
more modern platform usually isn't
enough you've got to give them something
new it's just kind of back to your 10x
yep so another question is if your
company that's you know in a difficult
industry like travel and transportation
you know you're probably not going to be
selling a ton today what advice would
you give them so they can make the best
use out of this time so that when things
get better they can emerge even stronger
I'll give advice it might it might be
challenged it might even be seen as a
little bit mean
but even I there's three types of the
streets everything's changed since March
right and there's three types of
startups there's ones I call the Cova
beneficiaries like rapid gain some of
them they're a handful that even in
March we're Kovac beneficiaries like
zoom like the next day we needed zoom
they're a bunch we're like the world
slowed down in March and then in April
we saw boosts right that's like Shopify
okay Shopify actually said in March
we're not even giving guidance we don't
even know if we're gonna grow anymore
because SN bees are going out of
business everywhere but then April came
along and they're like whoa the whole
world's going so-so Shopify it like so
so so but those are the Cova
beneficiaries there's what I call The
Cove it impacted where it's a mix right
some of your areas are getting a boost
and some some are really struggling like
imagine you have a broad business but
you so lot into travel and events and
hospitality right but you also sell to
cloud leaders right you're gonna you're
gonna have a mix and then there's folks
that are just the kovat crushed right
which which we're talking about and so
my advice
although the flavour is different my
advice books with the kovat crushed and
The Cove it impacted is quit your
whining it's June and friggin segment
your customers
enough bitching and whining and
complaining which segment now if you're
impacted but you have parts that are
growing in art stop complaining and and
put a lot more impact into selling to
the businesses that are doing fine
they're on fire they're on fire and the
ones that are benefiting can actually
outweigh the ones that are harmed look
at SAS stocks look at cloud stocks look
at the bessemer cloud index it's at an
all-time high because the benefits that
zoom slack Tullio everyone is
getting outweighs the event brights and
the others that are crushed it's not
that they're not getting crushed but
like the sky is the limiting cloud the
sky is the limit so stop focusing so
much on the downside and put all of your
efforts into the segments that are that
are winning and that works and that that
works best in that middle category right
where you were some of your business is
doing better and some of its doing worse
the bottom category everything seems to
be on the fire I mean even there it
turns out it's true now your your
revenue may be deeply troubled for
longer than I care to admit right but
there are always segments that are
booming right I can tell you for example
event space is surprisingly large right
events are depends how you calculate it
but events are over a hundred billion
dollar business in the US trade shows
and events from for most b2b companies
the average b2b coming he gets 20 to 40%
of its leads from physical events you
might not like them they may stay that
you might not like the format they may
seem like a ripoff but they do work
right and and but anyone in the events
world look at Eventbrite there's no
business there's no business but even
there at end we pre produce events
that's a stir we produce events with
tens and tens of thousands people a year
and and what I've observed from the
vendors we work with the cloud vendors
we work with is the best ones have
already tilted the best ones have
already yes
faster as a company is not producing
physical events this year like we're
done our sastra I know gets fifteen
thousand folks from all across the world
ain't gonna happen this year right but
our digital events since just since
March have already had over 30,000
people come since Martin oh that's great
and the best vendors we work with
already have a product for that
they already have an offering now do we
pay them as much do we pay them the same
way no but the best vendors so I'm not
saying that some of those vendors aren't
gonna have a bleak 24 months ahead of
them right but they have evolved and
they have evolved paid offerings that
that find that piece of their business
that still works Travel still exists
Travel still exists now if your trip
actions it sucks it sucks because people
don't need run-of-the-mill travel for
their teams right but travel has
rebounded from its low points what can
you do to improve the travel experience
for the folks that are travelling what
do they need and trip actions has done a
bunch of this right how can you travel
safer would you as algo Leah would you
pay for your employees to travel safer
of course you would of course you would
you would pay you would like maybe
you're traveling algo leah is five
percent of what it used to be one two
zero five right would you pay even three
times as much for that travel so that
you know they don't get Co vat19 of
course you would pay three times as much
of course you would do it so build the
software like even in the most impact
industries events and travel there is a
piece that you can lean in and get a
cove adduced will you have the same
revenue you have in q1 probably not in
the worst and I mean no way look at
Eventbrite right but leading where it
works and guide the team there the team
will rally around this that you can say
to the same look 80% of our business
we're dead for this year for 80% of the
business but this 20% we can do a
mitzvah we can crush it in this 20% and
so you segment your business and you go
Cove it impacted right Cove it
beneficiary and then even if the cove a
beneficiary piece is small you as a team
can pat yourself on the back and say
here's our q3 goal our q3 goal is for
this segment of the business and it's
small we want a quadruple it and
everyone the team will feel good we want
to feel good about going to work each
day we need to feel like we're winners
and it's enough to know that half of our
work week is we're winning like that the
charts are going up so like even if the
axes have changed it's enough that's why
we do startups is to be a part of a
winner right to be a part of a great
thing and we can roll with change but we
need new goals that we can feel good
about right enough with the cuts
enough with the Debbie Downer is enough
with the complaints enough with though
even if you had to do layoffs enough
like move on right it's time to find
goal growth goal
even if their different growth goals
yeah I think that is such an important
point that it's amazing how goals can
affect how you perceive how you're doing
every day and so I gotta set goals that
are achievable and teams can feel like
they're winning is just so critical yeah
and and and today the other thing I
learned is like I'm sure you felt that
too is like there's been so much change
in the world since March right you can't
change them every week anymore yeah like
you gotta pick if you've changed your
goals three times since March now you
got to pick some goals for the rest the
year you got to stick with them and they
have to be achievable and they have to
be goals people will feel good about
weave it's time to stick with a plan
yeah yeah we haven't changed our goals
that much but I swear it feels like
every two weeks there's like some new
tidal wave that comes along and you just
gotta restock everything
yeah but the cheat your cheat you're the
founders can take a lot of change right
the management team can take a bunch of
change but not as much as the founders
and then the rest of the team they like
maybe once a quarter is all the change
the rest of the team really can it's too
much yeah I need to know what code I'm
shipping this quarter I need to know
what the goals are I need to know what
my sales goal I need to know my target
customers this quarter I need to know
what my MQL goal is this quarter like
and you have to be careful as founders
in this dynamic world like you as
founders you can talk about change every
day right every day like even in our
little team faster Amelia and I talk
every single day now during shelter at
about 5:00 and we talk about the change
in the world today and it's fun as far
as like founders to talk about all that
change the world it's real it's
cathartic right oh my god did you see
that like Disneyland's reopening Web
Summit this happened this company's
happened there but you can't if you
share that all with the team they'll
implode in this world right we need to
all go back to whatever the new normal
is for the rest of you as much as
possible with your team they need to
just hit their pit bulls they feel good
about yeah totally agree so last
question for let's say you've hired your
first CRO so you're still very early
stage how should you think about the mix
that should be coming from existing
customers versus new customers well
first of all you've already made a
terrible hire
because you hired a CRO early now I'm
being a little facetious but not really
nothing wrong with a little title
inflation these days I've come full
circle on that I could share sir it's
nothing wrong with a little time
inflation nothing wrong with
self-confidence and a little bit of
hubris right but I will tell you that
you only need so many sees before you
have you peez
I CRO is a great title when you have
like 2v pieces but I got to tell you the
problem with someone too early that
wants to be a CRO or a CMO like in the
early days is they want to own too much
I tear off' ID when a company below 5 or
10 million wants a CRO because you know
what that really usually means they
don't want to be a VP of Sales anymore
this is an important flag even you know
when I when I even five six years ago
there weren't that many SAS veterans
available when I met the Algol II a team
in the early days I introduced them to
every up-and-coming VP of Sales and
Marketing I knew right but there weren't
that many like you need you need four to
five years minimum of leadership
experience to be that next person but
another five years have gone by and
there are hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of SAS veterans out there right
there are hundreds of folks that have
been VPS of sales and marketing and
customer success and product in really
good companies and they're available um
and some of them are tired some of them
don't want to do demand gen anymore some
of them don't want to own a product
roadmap and in issue story points
anymore some of them don't want to do
code commits anymore alright and some
folks don't want to do sales anymore
because sales is hard does it does it
get any easier Ashley each quarter when
that when the when the bookings go back
to zero on July 1 or ever maybe you're a
January 31st guy care but it never gets
any easier does it no and what I'm
finding now is so many sales leaders I
can tell you what happens in marketing
to I'm interested but so many sales
leaders deep down the ones you'll fall
in love with because they did it and not
only do they do it but they're
empathetic they talk the talk
they're charismatic deep down they don't
do it again they're burnt they're burnt
and so I know this isn't it I will
answer the exact question asked but zero
is a flag early as is CML okay cuz
usually your L means well you know I'm
all higher I'm gonna do sales and
customer success ah flag I'm gonna do
sales customer success and marketing ah
like we're not big enough like I need
you to put points on the board right I
need you to hire reps three through
thirty not lot not like be a strategist
right not be a revenue strategist you're
not ready same thing what happens is
great marketers will come in and they'll
be like you know it I don't want to be
the head of demand in and they had a
content marketing and the head of field
anymore I don't wanna I don't want to be
fired up Marketo myself or or or or or
wiring hub spotted to Salesforce so uh I
want seven people on my team and I meet
so many folks that are up-and-coming
marketers that immediately needs six or
seven people on their team they're like
two or three million in revenue right
and and and and some of its ambition but
some of its being burnt out so so be
careful title inflation's okay but be
careful that they're willing to do the
job and CRO at CMO too early I'm not
gonna say I've never seen it work out
but I am gonna say I've never seen it
work out too early right I'll go in easy
mo I'll call an easy CR kolya these two
CCO and all the cities like eleven sees
but okay and then how much should be for
new and recurring customers probably the
wrong way to think about the question
although it's the right question the the
better way to think about it is a
simpler way to think about it is just um
take a look at what your net retention
rate has been historically is it 100 120
130 140 and ideally try to drive it up
that's the Northstar metric and then
your CRO or VPS sales wherever will it's
their job to figure out what's easier is
it easier to get more money from the
base which usually it is right of course
because you already closed the company
but sometimes it's not true sometimes
you have so so you're so good at selling
the deal that you actually want to put
more effort into new leads right and
sometimes the new leads are very hot and
sometimes
in some products it could take a very
long time for upsell some products like
might naturally grow like an algo Lea if
you have a usage based contract it might
naturally grow or Twilio but others
might take two years before you're ready
to buy more right so my point is you're
CRO should figure this out give her a
Northstar metric which is okay last
quarter we had 120 percent net revenue
retention that's that's expansion
Ned of turn we had 120 our goal is a
team this quarter is 125 130 135 and
that's ambitious right if you think
through some of the math but trust your
team to figure out the ratio they'll
figure it out for you have their own
people great well I really want to thank
you so much for taking the time with us
today Jason you sharing advice so really
appreciate it okay thanks everyone for
joining all right thanks everyone
thanks Ashley and everyone elbow I
appreciate it thanks bye bye everyone